Hello and welcome.
Today we're going to talk about
some of the new installation
technologies in Leopard.
We're going to split the session
up into four different sections.
If you went to the first
session on Tuesday,
you might be familiar with this setup.
We're going to start by talking about
easier ways and better ways to create
software packages using Packagemaker,
Packagemaker 3.0 we've
introduced in Leopard.
We're next going to talk about
better ways to deliver your software
and your package content to your
customers with a new flat package
format we're introducing in Leopard,
downloadable packages,
and certificate signing of your packages.
Then we'll cover a
well-asked-for feature,
home directory installs.
And then go over some changes
that are coming in upgrades,
like better ways to find movable
software and patch packages,
and some changes in the way we do
receipts in the Leopard Installer.
So let's get started with
creating the packages.
In order to create great
software packages to deliver
your software to your customers,
you need great tools.
How many out there are
familiar with PackageMaker?
I see a lot of you
have used Packagemaker.
Packagemaker is really hard to use,
and we find that a lot of our customers
use Packagemaker to get started and then
edit the package by hand afterwards.
And in Leopard,
if you've checked out the Leopard Seed,
we have a new Packagemaker 3.0,
which makes this much easier
to do than ever before.
Instead of talking about
this for a long time,
let's show you a quick demo.
I'm sorry.
Quickly about PackageMaker 3.0.
PackageMaker 3.0 is workflow focused.
It allows you to create your
software packages the way
you create your software.
It picks the best package format for you.
You don't need to worry about whether
you need to make a meta package
or a package or a distribution.
You just create your software,
you create your interface,
and PackageMaker will take
care of that detail for you.
And it even exposes almost all the
installer features that we provide,
including all the features
we're going to talk about today
throughout the session with Leopard.
And our plan is for it to
have it run on 10.4 as well,
the Leopard seed version of PackageMaker.
So the version in the seed
today does not run on 10.4,
but we plan to get out a version
to you guys soon that will.
So let's show you a quick
demo of Packagemaker,
Sean.
Good afternoon.
My name is Sean Kelly,
and I work on PackageMaker at Apple.
In this demo,
we'll use the new PackageMaker to create
a simple package for one application
with some interface resources.
So let's get started.
Today we're going to build
a package for Sketch,
which is one of the developer
example applications.
So we'll launch Package Maker.
The Install Properties
dialog will come down,
and we'll call this the Sketch package,
and we'll target Tiger.
To add Sketch to the package,
we can just drag it in
to the contents area.
And we'll see that PackageMaker has
figured out that this is an application,
and it's filled in some
default information for us.
We're also going to add
some interface resources.
To do that, we click on the Sketch item
in the upper left corner and
then the Edit Interface button.
This brings up the interface editor,
which is a what you see
is what you get interface.
What you configure here is exactly what
the user will see in the installer.
To add your resources,
you just pick the item you want along
the left and then drag your file in.
So we'll add a background image.
And it doesn't look too
good up in the corner,
so we'll move that into the center.
And then we'll also add a license
and a welcome or an introduction.
So now we'll build our package
and we'll save it on the desktop.
And if we open in the installer,
we see that we have our
background image with our welcome.
If we click through,
we'll have our license,
which the user has to
agree to to continue.
And if we continue to click
through the installer,
Sketch would be installed
into slash applications.
And that's how easy it is to create
a package in PackageMaker 3.0.
Chris?
As you see with PackageMaker 3.0,
it's much easier to create your
software packages to deliver
your software to your customers,
and it's much fewer
steps than ever before.
And the PackageMaker you see here
today is more of a preview as we're
still working on it and hope to
have even more features and better
functionality when Leopard ships.
So that's better ways
to create your software.
Now how do we deliver our
software better to our customers?
Most of the ways to deliver
software are via a store with media,
a CD-ROM or DVD.
But going forward,
people have been starting to deliver
their software over the internet
with downloads and other things.
And with installer packages,
they're bundles and folders.
And to deliver your software,
you need to wrap those bundles
with a zip file or a disk image.
And that makes it very difficult for
your customers to use that because
they need to download the zip file,
unzip the file, launch the package,
throw away the zip file.
Also, with downloadable
content on the internet,
your customers have to download large
pieces of software and they may only use
parts of the options of your software,
may not need the entire thing.
So in Leopard, we're really improving
the way you can do this.
We're doing that with a
new flat package format.
We're gonna go over more
details in a couple minutes.
Downloadable packages,
you can download packages
while you're installing,
as well as certificate signed packages.
So let's start by talking
about flat packages.
To do that,
I want to quickly go over again what
the packages are like today in 10.4.
Packages are bundles.
These bundles are just, you know,
the CFBundle,
just like the CFBundle API or NSBundle.
They contain files and folders.
And when you want to distribute
these packages to your customers,
you need to wrap them up in an archive.
And they really have poor performance
when you have many packages.
We're really moving for
our software developers,
and even Apple ourselves
are trying to do this,
by making our software more and
more packages so we can deliver more
and more options to our customers.
And when you have more and more packages,
with the bundled packages,
the performance is really
starting to get to the limit.
For example,
the OS install Leopard was installed
with has over 100 packages,
and just reading those packages
as bundles takes a long time.
Also, our bundled packages contain both
the presentation information as
well as the actual package content,
the software you want to deliver.
And in Tiger,
we introduced distributions,
and we're trying to remove the
presentation and the content and
separate them from each other.
With iLife, for example,
you have iLife contains a special
interface for installing iLife,
and it contains packages within it,
like iTunes and iMovie.
And that presentation and the
actual package content is separate.
So the new flat packages in Leopard
change this by having the entire
package content in a single file.
So you can easily distribute
the software over the internet
without wrapping it in bundles,
et cetera, or wrapping it inside of
a disk image or zip file.
They also have much better
performance when having many packages.
Maybe thousands of packages or
even more don't take very long
to open and actually install.
And also, we're really starting to move
away from having presentation
information in the package.
And so in the flat file package format,
there's no presentation
information in there.
We expect you to put your presentation
information in the distribution scripts.
So you're probably wondering,
do you have to move to flat packages?
And the answer is no.
Your bundle packages will
continue to work going forward.
They'll work just fine.
And we're going to continue
to support them going forward.
But in order to start moving ahead
and utilizing the internet and
utilizing some of the new features,
we'd like you to start looking
into these flat packages.
We really understand that most of
you want to ship your software for an
operating system that's actually out.
And so we understand you're
probably not going to be shipping
with flat packages anytime soon.
But we'd like you to start looking
into this technology and see how it can
change the way you deliver your software.
And flat packages will give you some
of these things we're showing up here.
And we're going to talk
about a lot of these today.
So let's quickly go over what one
of these flat packages looks like.
A flat package uses
XAR file archive format.
It's an open source format.
You can get more information
at the Open Darwin website.
I know that's going away,
some of you have heard,
but they're looking at
places to relocate it.
And Apple contributes back to XAR and
any changes we make we're going to
bring back to the XAR community.
And XAR is similar to a zip format
where it has a table of contents and
the file content and it's done with
XML so we can extend what we can
put in our packages in the future.
And these flat packages
can compress their data,
both the metadata and your actual
application data using Gzip or Bzip2.
And Bzip2 will give you smaller packages
to distribute to your customers.
And of course all of
this is in a single file.
Now, I just spent a lot of time earlier
talking about how we're going for
the separation of presentation
information and your package content.
Well, we have this thing called
flat distributions,
and that allows you to
put all of your software,
your software product,
in a single file to
distribute to your customers.
You may do this with iLife,
or even maybe Apple Software Update might
use this to distribute all of the
software update in a single file.
But we may want to actually separate
the content and the concepts of
the package into separate packages.
So we really are trying to keep
the concept of packages and the
thing that we use to distribute
the packages separately here.
Anyways,
these flat distributions allow you to put
all of your software in a single file.
It uses a distribution script to
drive the installation experience,
and it can contain all
the resources necessary.
And this is a great way to
distribute your software in a
single file to your customers.
The good news is that Packagemaker
makes this really easy and
will do all this work for you.
So let's have Sean come up
here and give you a quick demo.
Sean?
Thanks, Chris.
In this demo,
we'll take the document we created
before and turn it into a flat package.
So we'll go back to the
main PackageMaker interface.
As Chris mentioned,
to create a flat package
in PackageMaker 3.0,
all you need to do is target Leopard.
So we'll change our target using
the Install Properties dialog,
which can be found in the View menu.
And we'll target Leopard.
If we build our package,
we'll put it on the desktop again.
And if we open in the installer,
we see that we have the same
install experience before.
We have our background image
with our welcome and our license.
Now, because this is a flat package,
you can no longer go into the finder
and control click on the package
and go in and edit files by hand.
So in Package Maker,
we've included a tool called
the Flat Package Editor,
which you can find in the Edit menu.
So we'll launch that.
And if we bring in the
Sketch package we just created,
The Flat Package Editor will
show us the package contents.
We can add and remove them.
We can see what's there.
Now,
because we had resources in this package,
we can see that PackageMaker has
automatically upgraded this into
a flat distribution because flat
packages can't have interface resources.
So inside the package,
we have the package info file
with the BOM and the payload
that Chris had mentioned.
We have our distribution XML,
and we have our interface resources,
the background, the license,
and the welcome.
In addition to the Flat Package Editor,
you can also use the Czar command
line tool to edit flat packages.
So that's Flat Packages
in PackageMaker 3.0.
Chris?
Thank you, Sean.
As you can see,
it's really easy to create these
flat packages in PackageMaker.
We'd like you guys to start trying
them out and playing with them.
So let's dig a little deeper on
what these flat packages look
like underneath the scenes.
As Sean pointed out,
there's a package info file.
This contains all the
metadata about the package,
size information,
and other things the installer
can use to install the file.
This package info file looks like this.
It's an XML file.
The information up here is not
really important because PackageMaker
will take care of these details.
But it contains information such
as the identifier of the package,
which is used for upgrades, the version,
where the package is going
to install by default,
et cetera.
Obviously,
all packages need a payload to deliver
your software to your customers,
and so flat packages have a payload,
just like the bundled packages.
And that's a CPIO archive,
which contains the software.
And of course,
the CPIO archive is compressed
using the XAR container.
And these archives can,
just like the bundled packages,
properly archive resource forks,
extended attributes, type creator, icons,
etc.
So flat packages also
have installer scripts.
Installer scripts allow you to
perform an action before and right
after installing of a package.
These are executables,
either executables or shell scripts.
And like I said,
they can run right before
or right after a package.
And they have access to the
location of the installation.
And one of the new things we're
going to talk about a little later
is that the flat packages have
a model for relocating software.
If your software is a bundle,
an application that can move on the disk,
the flat packages can find
that application as it's moved.
And the flat packages also have a
way in your installer scripts to
run a script specifically for that
application that's moved and tell
the script where the application's
moved so that you can perform an
action before and after that location.
Also, these scripts have access to
other resources and other scripts
inside of this flat package.
Additionally, if some of you are familiar
with the bundled packages,
in the bundled packages
there is a pre-flight script,
a post-flight script,
a pre-upgrade script,
a post-upgrade script,
and a pre-upgrade script.
There's a post-upgrade script,
a pre-install, and a post-install script.
And in flat packages,
we've really simplified that
by just having a pre-install
script and a post-install script.
There's no longer a pre-flight script,
which can run at the very,
very beginning of the
installation of your product,
or a post-flight script that runs
at the very end rather than just
before and after your package.
So if you need to do that,
flat packages allow you to
create a script-only package
that doesn't have a payload.
And you can place that package at
the very beginning of your install
or the very end of your install.
In the package info file,
you specify the scripts
using the scripts elements.
And here we have four scripts.
And the four scripts,
the first one is just
a pre-install script.
And the file attribute specifies the
name of the script you want to run.
And of course, PackageMaker will take
care of these details.
But also, you see the second item
is a component script.
And a component is a way we
represent sub-items of your package,
such as bundles and things
that could move independently.
And there's a post-install script
for our simple app component,
as well as a post-install
script for the overall package.
You don't need all of these,
but you can have these for your package.
So you may be wondering
about requirement checks.
Is there a way to say that my
package can only install on
this system or another system?
And the answer is no.
These packages are only a way to deliver
your software and install your software.
And those requirement checks
belong in the distribution script.
But PackageMaker will take
care of that detail for you.
So if you're creating a 10-4 package,
it may put requirement checks
inside of your individual packages.
If you create a 10-5 package,
PackageMaker will automatically make
sure those go to the distribution script.
So to summarize the flat packages,
it's a 10.5 only technology.
It's going to be used going
forward for new features,
and it's really a platform we're
going to use to continue to improve
our installation technology.
It allows you to download your
software without wrapping your
software in zip files or disk images.
And we really want you guys to start
trying them out and playing with them.
Again, we understand you probably
can't use them for a while,
as you won't be shipping software that
requires 10.5 only for quite a while.
And PackageMaker 3.0 makes
it very easy to use this.
So now that we have this great way
to download your content from the
internet using our flat packages,
there's some other things we can
do with downloadable packages.
In Leopard, with these flat packages,
we had something called
a Quick Start package.
And if you went to the
first session on Tuesday,
we kind of started to
allude to this package type.
What this allows you to do,
it allows you to have your
software on the internet,
just the distribution of your software.
Your customer can
download the distribution.
They get to make the choices.
They can see the license agreement.
They can see the custom install panel,
custom background, et cetera.
And once they make the choice
of what they want to install,
the installer will go to the internet
and download only the pieces that
your software needs to install
with the way your customer expects.
This will really save time and money
for both you and your customers.
And it's really bringing our install
technology back to where we were,
I guess, in QuickTime.
A QuickTime installer back in the
day used to do a similar thing.
So hopefully this will
help a lot of you out.
So the way this is done is by specifying
a URL inside the distribution script of
your package that points to a server.
And Packagemaker 3.0
makes it very easy to do.
So let's quickly show you a demo,
quick start package.
Thank you, Chris.
On this demo, we'll create a quick start
package to install Sketch.
So I have a PackageMaker document that
I've created ahead of time that just
defines some interface resources so
that we don't have to do that again.
To create a quick start
package using PackageMaker 3.0,
you drag in an existing flat package.
Now by default, if you add a package
into PackageMaker 3.0,
it'll read the package and it'll present
it all in the PackageMaker interface.
You can then make changes and
PackageMaker will rebuild the package.
However,
what we want to do is we want to point
it to a URL where the package will live.
So we'll use this menu and we'll
change it to downloadable package.
And we have a web server
running on this machine,
so I'll give it a local host URL.
And then I'll build the package
and save it on the desktop.
Now if we get info on the
package we just created,
we'll see that it's only 32 kilobytes.
And if we open it in the installer,
We see we have our
interface resources there.
We have our background image
and our README and our license.
And if we click through and install,
during the installation,
the installer will go to the web server,
download the package, and install it.
So the user only has to download
the small 32 kilobytes to
quick start their install.
So that's downloadable
packages in PackageMaker 3.0.
Chris?
Thank you, Sean.
As you can see,
it's really easy to use Packagemaker
3.0 to create downloadable
and quick start packages.
And I'm sure you guys can
imagine different ways to
distribute your software using
this technology in the future.
So how does it do this behind the scenes?
What Packagemaker is doing is placing
a URL inside the package ref element
inside your distribution script.
Those of you who are familiar with
distribution scripts and how this works,
usually it's a file URL.
It also places a hash of the package
inside the distribution script,
and that way the installer can ensure
that the package it downloads and
installs is the one that the author
of the original software expected.
So to summarize downloadable packages,
it's a flat file package
format only for 10,
5 packages and going forward.
But we really want you to
start embracing the internet.
Your customers are
embracing the internet.
They're probably even downloading
your software via the internet now.
It should be even easier
going forward in the future.
And it will save time
and money for everybody.
So now that we have ways to package your
software in easier ways and download
that software from the internet,
start to get into places where
identifying where the software
comes from is very important.
And so our flat package format
supports certificate signing.
Those of you who are familiar
with Software Update know that
Apple Software Update only installs
software from Apple Computer.
And our customers expect that
the software it gets from
Software Update is the software
update that Apple expects to give you.
It does that by signing its
packages and ensuring the package
does come from Apple Computer.
This signing doesn't say anything
about whether the software is
good or whether it's secure,
but mostly just says that
it's from Apple Computer,
and it's really all about identity.
So certificate signing packages is
all about where the package comes
from and ensuring that a piece of
software is the software you expect.
So in Leopard, this is more of kind of
a preview technology.
It's something that our flat
package format is going to support,
but we're still working out better ways
to utilize the certificate signing of the
packages to deliver your software better.
It's a work in progress,
and you sign your packages
using a standard X.509 cert.
You can use a certificate
assistant to do that,
and we're going to show
you a demo in a minute.
And the UI we have in the installer
is just for testing at this point.
One of the things you can do
going forward and something that
we plan on doing for Leopard is
possibly downloading your software,
updating software from the installer.
The way this would work is you
might deliver your software today
at 1.0 and know that you might
have a 1.1 going down the line.
But you don't know what the hash
of that package is going to be,
so you can't use the quick
start package technology.
So you sign your package now and you
specify that there may be software
down the line at a specific URL.
When that time comes where the
software is on that server and your
customers install that software,
it will check the server,
download the package,
and match the certificate signing to
make sure that the same person who
signed the original software is the
same person who signed the update.
And if that's the case,
it can safely install the software.
In this case,
the certificate doesn't even
have to be a certificate that
goes to a root authority.
It can be a self-signed package.
But we can ensure that the software is
from the original author we saw before.
Again, this is something that we're
looking forward to doing.
And we're going to do many
more things down the line.
And really,
the certificate signing of packages is
more of a technology we're introducing
as part of the flat packages.
So let's show you a quick
demo of signing packages.
Sean?
Thank you, Chris.
In this demo,
we'll create a signed package for Sketch.
So to get started,
we'll use the Certificate Assistant to
create a self-signed certificate
using the Keychain Access application,
which can be found in
Applications Utilities.
So we'll go into the Keychain
Access menu and the Certificate
Assistant item and create a certificate.
We'll call this the
WWDC Demo Certificate,
which will be a self-signed
root certificate.
So we have our WWDC demo certificate.
And if we go into Package Maker,
we'll create a signed sketch.
and Target Leopard because
otherwise certificates won't work.
And we'll add Sketch again.
To set our certificate,
we can use the Set Certificate
item in the Project menu.
Packagemaker will scan and find all the
certificates that are valid for signing.
So we have our WWDC demo certificate.
And we'll set that.
We'll build our package onto the desktop.
And when it gets ready to sign,
PackageMaker will ask you if it's
allowed to use the certificate.
So we'll allow that.
And if we open it in the installer,
we'll see there's a little lock
icon up in the upper right corner.
If we click on that,
we'll see which certificate
was used to sign the package.
And that's really all there is to it
for certificate signing in PackageMaker.
Chris?
Thank you, Sean.
As you can see, there's a theme here.
We're really trying to make sure that
all the features that we're exposing and
giving you developers with installers
are all available in PackageMaker.
So now we've talked about new ways to
deliver your software using Leopard.
Let's talk about a new feature
in Leopard's installer to help
you install your software better.
And that's home directory installs.
This is --
This is something that's been asked
for and requested by many developers.
Many customers are looking for a way
to install in their home directory,
and so we're finally doing
this as part of Leopard.
It's really about giving
your customers the choice,
and sometimes they only have
the ability to install their
software in certain locations.
Not every customer uses their
machine as an administrator,
for example,
and so they want to be able to install
their software in their home directory.
It's very simple to do in Packagemaker.
It's as simple as selecting a checkbox.
Packagemaker has a new set of checkboxes
that specify the domain that you're
allowed to install the software in.
And the domains allow you to specify
how the user experience looks.
It's very simple to do in Packagemaker.
It's as simple as selecting a checkbox.
Packagemaker has a new set of checkboxes
that specify the domain that you're
allowed to install the software in.
So behind the scenes,
what PackageMaker does for you
is it creates a domains element
inside your distribution script.
That domains element tells the
installer which domains you'd like to
present to your user for installation.
There are three main domains,
the home directory domain,
the active system volume,
which is your running system,
and any other volume domain.
And that really drives what the
installer is going to show when it
brings the installer to your customer.
And these domains are
specified using JavaScript,
and they really boil
down to true or false.
So you can determine at runtime which
domains to show to your customers.
And of course, PackageMaker takes care
of these details for you.
So when you actually specify
an install to allow for home
directory or for the system,
what actually happens?
Well,
the installer is taking your package,
and if your user selects
their home directory,
it installs the entire package
root in the home directory.
If the user selects the system,
it will install the entire
package route at the system.
And if you do any searching
inside of your package,
it will restrict all the search
to the domain that your customer
specified so you don't install
your software in another location
if your customer specified
installing in their home directory.
To summarize, it's all about giving
your customers the choice.
And with PackageMaker 3.0,
it's very easy to create packages
that will install your software in
the home directory or on the system,
or whatever choices you feel
necessary for your software.
And of course,
these are really the things you need to
decide before designing your packages,
whether your package is appropriate for
installing in the home directory or not.
If you have software that
requires kernel extensions,
for example,
you probably don't want to allow
installation in the home directory.
It may not make very much sense to
have a kernel extension installed
in the system and an application
that uses that kernel extension
only accessible to one single user.
Another thing is,
this interface is available in both
the installer application as well
as the installer command line tool.
So if you have software
that has domains turned on,
you can specify which domain to install
by using the installer command line
tool or the installer application.
So that's a quick update on better ways
to install using the Leopard installer.
Now I want to cover better ways to do
upgrades using the Leopard installer.
Upgrades are all about planning ahead.
You really need to start looking
at how you're going to ship your
software in the future before
you ship your software to start.
Of course, that's not always possible,
but you really want to give
your users the best experience.
And to do that,
you want to be able to find your
software that your customers have moved
on the disk properly and also possibly
have more efficient ways of installing
your software over the internet.
So the three things we're going to talk
about today to make that better today
is better ways of finding your software.
The Leopard installer has new ways
to help relocate software on the
disk or find relocated software.
It also has a new patching
technology that allows you to
distribute your upgrades of your
software in much smaller pieces.
And there's also some changes
to how receipts are done,
and we'll talk about that in a bit.
So let's talk about better
ways to relocate software.
It's really a Mac thing to
move your software on the disk.
As your 1.0 software installer does,
it installs the software
maybe in /applications.
But your customers are free to move
that software anywhere on the disk.
They'll probably organize the
software however they feel fit.
And it's important that the installer
is created in a way that allows
your 2.0 of your software to find
that software while doing upgrades.
And it's really what's
expected on a Mac environment.
The good news is this is
really easy with PackageMaker.
With PackageMaker,
it's as simple as a simple checkbox.
And this will work for 10.3
and 10.4 packages as well
as the new 10.5 packages.
But what's new in Leopard is ways to do
searching as part of the flat packages,
as part of distribution scripts.
And searching inside of distribution
scripts allow you to do your
searches in a way that you haven't
been able to do in the past.
So let's say you're shipping iWork,
for example.
iWork comes with two applications,
Pages and Keynote.
And you want to make sure
that when you upgrade iWork,
you install both Pages and
Keynote in the same folder.
So if you have two independent searches,
they may find a copy of Pages in one
location and Keynote in another location.
And by doing your searches
in the distribution script,
you can use search results from
one search and key off of that.
You may find Pages and install
Keynote in the same folder as Pages.
And to do that,
we have three basic search types
we're going to talk about today.
We're going to start
with component searches.
Component searches are the
fastest way to search for
bundles inside of your package.
They're really the recommended
way of doing searches.
And we use both Launch Services and
Spotlight to find your
software as fast as possible.
What's happening with component searches
is there's a locator element in both
your distribution script or your package.
And that element
contains search elements.
Each search element is a single
search that finds a list of results.
Each search element has an
ID attribute that specifies a
name to the search you're doing.
And you can use that ID later on to
look up the results of the search.
They have a type attribute that
specifies the type of search.
And I said before that we
have three search types.
That's the way you specify searches.
So the first search type we're
talking about is component searches.
Component searches are the way
to find bundles on your disk.
You specify component search by
specifying a component element
inside the component search element.
That component element represents a
bundle you're looking for on disk.
It's the metadata about that
bundle that you want to find.
In this example,
we have the ID attribute,
and that specifies the bundle identifier
for the bundle we're looking for.
In this case, we're looking for iTunes.
We also have a path attribute,
and that specifies a default location
to search for that application,
so you don't need to go
through the entire system.
Most cases,
your application hasn't moved,
so this is the quickest way
to find that application.
And we also have any other attributes
as part of your bundle you would
like to put in your search,
and that lets you more finely tune
your search so that it only finds,
in this example,
iTunes 6.04 instead of all the other
iTunes that may be on your disk.
So another type of search
which is much more powerful is
the JavaScript script search.
The script search allows you to
use JavaScript to view results
of previous searches and return
results of a current search.
These results are returned
either using an array of paths,
a single path, or false specifying that
your search found nothing.
These are a very powerful way
to do searches like the iWork
search I talked about earlier.
So let's show you a quick demo
of what these searches look like.
Sean?
Thank you, Chris.
Now,
the most common type of search is when
you want to find something to replace.
Like, for example,
you shipped 1.0 of your app
and you want to find it and
replace it with 2.0 of your app.
PackageMaker can handle that for you.
But let's say you have a plug-in that
you've written for another application
and you want to find that application and
put the plug-in in a plug-ins directory
that sits next to the application.
PackageMaker can't quite
handle that for you yet.
We're hoping to have that
support for the final version.
But in this demo,
we'll show you how to edit your package
info file by hand to set up that search.
So we have an application called ispend,
which is currently in an ispend
directory in /applications.
And it has a plug-ins
directory that sits next to it,
where you want to install your plug-ins.
Now, let's say the user has
renamed the ispend directory.
They've organized all of their
finance applications together.
The installer can still find this.
So I have a flat package that
I've created ahead of time
that contains my plug-in.
So I'll open that in the flat
package editor that we saw earlier.
And we want to edit
the package info file.
So we'll just drag that to a text editor.
Before we make some changes,
a couple things to note.
We have a component section
that defines one component
for the iSpend plugin bundle.
It defines which file in the
package this component represents.
It has the bundle
identifier and a search ID.
What that means is that this
file will be installed at the
path found by this search.
If no search is found,
it will be installed in
the default location.
This ispend search is defined
in this locator section.
It's a component search that
looks for the iSpend application.
It looks in the default location.
If it's not there,
it'll search for the bundle identifier.
So what we want to do is we want
to add a script search that uses
the results of the iSpend search
to find that plug-in's directory.
So we'll create a new search element
and we'll give it an identifier of demo.
And the type will be a script search.
And then we give it a script attribute,
which is a JavaScript function that
we want to call to perform the search.
Inside of the search,
we can add a script element section.
And inside of that,
we can put our function.
So what we want to do is access the
my.search.results global variable,
which will be an array of the
results found by the search
you specify with an identifier.
So in this case, the iSpend search.
We'll check to make sure
that it's not null or false.
If it is, then we'll also return false,
meaning that the search has
failed so that the plugin will
go in the default location.
If results were found,
we want to grab the first one
because it'll be an array,
and then we'll append a relative path
to put it into the plugin's directory.
So then,
now that we've defined our search,
we'll update the search ID of
the component to point to
the new search we've created.
We'll save our package info file,
and we'll replace it using
the flat package editor.
And then we'll save a
copy onto the desktop.
And if we open this in the
installer and click through,
The installer will find the
application and put-- it
actually didn't do it this time.
So-- . Ah, yes.
Thank you.
Try this one more time.
Click through again.
And now that our JavaScript is correct,
it did find the application and
put our plug-in in the right place.
So that is searching.
Back to you, Chris.
Thank you, Sean.
How many of you out here have used
searching in MacOSX packages before?
A couple of you.
It's pretty complicated.
This is going to make
it much easier to do.
And even if you're
using 10.4 and earlier,
just a simple checkbox in Package
Maker will make this much easier to do.
But those of you who are familiar
with this searching might recognize
the token definitions plist file.
And so for those people who
have already fine-tuned their
searches for their software,
we have a new searching mechanism
in the flat packages called
the token definition search,
which let you leverage the searches
you've already created and place
them inside of your flat package.
These are a little less efficient and
not the recommended way of doing things,
but it's a good way to bridge your
package to the new technology.
So we've sort of started to touch on
how you can use some of these searches.
Sean showed you how you can use a
search to find the plugins folder
of an application and install
your software in that folder.
You can also, as Sean showed you,
you can access results of other searches
within any of your individual searches.
But you can also access these results
as part of a requirement check.
And more importantly,
you can use these results to
set where your software is
installed inside of your package.
So to specify where your
software is installed,
as Sean showed you,
you specify the search ID of
the component of your package.
A component is a representation
of a subpart of your package,
usually bundles.
So if you have separate
bundles inside of your package,
Packagemaker will create a component
for you and allow you to specify what
search results will be used to set the
target location for your installation.
Also, as Sean showed you,
you can use the My Search Results
object to access the searches within
any JavaScript inside of your package.
And that will let you access even
inside of requirement checks.
So let's say you have an
Adobe Photoshop plugin.
You may not want to actually
install the software if you
can't find Adobe Photoshop.
Regardless of where
Adobe Photoshop is installed,
the installer will be able to
search for Adobe Photoshop.
And if it's not available,
you can return that you don't want to
allow the installation on that software.
Again, it does this using the
mySearchResults object.
So to summarize searching,
there's new methods of
searching in Leopard.
They'll make it even easier to use,
and they're much less confusing
than the token definitions P-list
you guys might be familiar with.
They're much quicker because they
use launch services and Spotlight
to help find your software.
And the new searching mechanisms are
only available as part of 10.5 and later.
Although, like I said,
PackageMaker 3.0 will allow you to
create the old search syntax if you
need to for 10.4 and earlier packages.
So that's searching.
Now that we have these
downloadable packages,
you can download your
software from the internet,
there must be a better way to
download smaller parts of your
package while doing an upgrade.
And that's what patch packages are for.
Many of you are familiar, again,
with Software Update.
And what Software Update does behind
the scenes is it checks your system and
sees if it can find the right diffs of
files and install only those files so
you can only download a smaller part
of MacOSX while doing an upgrade.
We've been using this
technology at Apple for a while,
and now we're ready to give it to
you guys through patched packages
in the flat package format.
So they allow you to have packages
that contain only updates of packages,
only files that are
updated in your software,
as well as carry diffs of
files in your software.
And it really saves on download time.
This enables you to have a package that
might be your first version of the OS,
the first version of your
software may be 10 megabytes,
and the second version
may be 20 megabytes.
And instead of shipping all 20 megabytes,
you can possibly ship 10 megabytes
or even less of your software.
It does this by using bsdiff to diff the
files in the package or in your software.
And for the leopard seed,
it only diffs MacO binaries.
But for the final release
of MacOSX Leopard,
Packagemaker will diff all
the files inside your package.
Also,
Packagemaker will automatically create
search requirements that will ensure
that the software that your patch
requires is actually located on the
disk that you're installing onto.
And let's show you a quick demo of that.
Sean?
Thank you, Chris.
In this demo,
we'll create a patch package that
will upgrade the 10.4 version of
Sketch to the 10.5 version of Sketch.
So I'll launch Package Maker,
and this will be the
Sketch patch package,
which will target Leopard so
that patching will be enabled.
And we want to create a package
for the 10.5 version of Sketch.
And to configure patching,
we'll click on the sketch item
and go to the components tab,
which will scan the contents
of your package and bring up
all of the bundles it finds.
And to turn on patching,
we'll click the patching checkbox,
which will bring down this dialog.
And with this dialog,
you give PackageMaker the old version of
your application that you want to patch.
Now, it's very important that the
version you give here be the version
that will be on the user system.
Because if the old version is not found,
the installation will not
be allowed to proceed.
So we'll point this at the
10.4 version of Sketch.
The Package Maker will scan
through the applications.
It'll find files that are found in both,
and it'll generate packages
for the Mako binaries.
In this case,
it found one Mako binary to patch,
which will save us 189 kilobytes.
So we'll save our patch,
and we'll build the
package onto the desktop.
If we do a get info on the patch,
we can see that the
package is 176 kilobytes.
If we had generated a
full package for Sketch,
it would have been 340 kilobytes.
So we've saved some file space there.
If we launch the patch package in
the installer and click through
to the destination select pane,
we've seen that some of the
volumes have a stop sign on them.
That's because those volumes don't have
the 10.4 version of Sketch on them,
so the installation is
not allowed to proceed.
So that's patching in PackageMaker 3.0.
Thank you, Sean.
As you see,
patch packages are going to enable
you to deliver upgrades to your
software in even faster and better
ways over the internet in the future.
[Transcript missing]
And to make it easier for you
guys to look into these packages
or look into these receipts,
because before you could go into library
receipts and see what was happening,
we have a tool called Package Util
that lets you query the system
for what packages are installed,
query the system for what files are
installed as part of that package,
and even remove receipts or even
remove files from those receipts.
And this isn't a full uninstall,
rather more a debugging tool for
developers and other people to
work with this receipt database.
But as you can see,
we're really working on some technology
that will make some of these more future
things happen even quicker going forward.
So please check out Package Util.
So to summarize,
we really want you to start utilizing
searching in your packages to ensure
that if your software can be moved
and your customers move your software,
your upgrades will find that
software and upgrade them properly.
Also, patching will allow you to
upgrade your software faster
by having smaller downloads for
your customers over the internet.
And library receipts is changing.
So if you depend on changing
receipts in library receipts,
or deleting receipts,
or reading out of receipts,
you're going to have to find new
ways to do this going forward.
And if you really depend on that,
we'd really like to hear from you
so we can understand what you're
doing with library receipts and
make some changes to help make
it easier for you going forward.
So that's upgrades.
As you can see,
we're really starting to move
in a direction to allow for more
advanced things going forward.
With our new flat packages and
downloadable packages and patch
packages and our new receipts mechanism,
we're really moving in that direction
to do even more advanced things that
we haven't shown you here today.
So this is just a preview of
what we're doing going forward.
Also, all the things we've talked about
today are going to continue to improve
as we develop Leopard going forward.
So we've talked about creating
packages using PackageMaker 3.0,
better ways to deliver your software
with a new flat package format,
a new install feature with
home directory installs,
and better ways to do upgrades
with better searching and patching.
So to learn more about this,
about installers,
we have a lab at 5 o'clock in Lab C.
Come by.
The entire installer team will be
there to answer any of your questions.
We have a new software delivery
guide online which will help
you create simple packages.
It doesn't cover PackageMaker 3.0,
but it's a great document on how
to create your software and develop
them and distribute them to your
customers using PackageMaker.
Also we have a release note on the
web as well as inside the seed,
which mostly covers 10.4 technology,
but it's a really good reference.
And we also have an installer
development list that's public
that you guys can get on.
And it's a really great way to
communicate with developers,
other developers that
are creating packages,
as well as the Apple developers.
We can help you out and work
through your problems online.